Readme ev12 (#228)
Quicr/hactar: README.md

6. [ESP32 Toolchain](#esp_installation)
7. [Hactar Setup](#hactar_setup)
8. [Additional Notes](#additional_notes)

> 8. [Quick start](#quick_start)

Reviewer: Should Quick start be at the top?

Author: I actually ended up removing it. I forgot to remove it.

- [FreeCAD](https://www.freecad.org/)
- [arm-none-eabi](https://developer.arm.com/downloads/-/gnu-rm)
- [ESP-IDF](https://idf.espressif.com/)
- [STM32 CubeMX](https://www.st.com/en/development-tools/stm32cubemx.html)

<h2 id="firmware">Firmware</h2>

The Firmware is split into 3 categories. Management, User Interface, and Network.
- Management - STM32F072
- User Interface - STM32F405
- Network - ESP32S3

### <h3 id="management"><b>Management</b></h3>

The management chip is responsible for uploading firmware to the stm32 - main chip and the esp32 network chip using a ch340 usb chip.

The management chip receives commands from the usb communication that informs it what chip we are currently uploading. As well as debugging. It is able to receive log messages from the ui and net chips and push them out to the usb interface.

#### <h4 id="managmenet_flashing">Flashing</h4>
On the first flash you'll need to figure out what device port your hactar is on. You can do this in several ways depending on which operating system you are on. Start by viewing your devices, and then plug in your hactar, and then view your devices again and see what was added to your device list.

> 

Reviewer: Do we still need to do this? I thought it was automatic now

Author: Yeah, except the only way we can tell if a device is a hactar we need the mgmt chip to first have the software on it, then it can respond with "I AM A HACTAR".

<h5>To view your device list:</h5>

- <h5>Linux/MacOS</h5>

    `ls /dev/ttyUSB*`

- <h5>Windows</h5>

    `Open printers and devices`

    `Find serial com ports`

To flash the management chip you'll need to press the boot and reset buttons on the board in the following manner:

<i id="button_press_order">Button press order</i>
<!-- TODO pictures -->
- Press and hold boot button.

> - Press and release reset button.

Reviewer: In the absence of photos maybe explaining that boot is left and reset is right would be good?

- Release boot button.

<i>First flash</i>

> - In hactar/firmware/mgmt, enter make upload PORT=/where/my/device/is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In hactar/firmware/mgmt, enter make upload PORT=<path/to/device>
```

##### <h5>After flashing:</h5>

After flashing the management chip you can run `make upload` without specifying the port, and it will be automatically found by the flasher and an attempt to upload will occur, when you see the attempt return to [Button press order](#button_press_order)

#### <h4 id="management_commands">Commands</h4>

- **reset** - Resets `ui` chip and then `net` chip. Accepts commands.
- **ui_upload** - Puts the management chip into `ui` chip upload mode. (STM32f05)
- **net_upload** - Puts the management chip into `net` chip upload mode. (ESP32S3)
- **debug** - Puts the management chip into debugging mode where serial messages from both `ui` and network chips are transmitted back to the usb interface. This is uni-directional from the management chip to the computer. However, all commands work during this mode.
- **debug_ui** (future feature) - Only reads serial messages from the `ui` chip.

> - **debug_net** (future feature) - Only reads serial messages from the `net` chip.

Reviewer: These are implemented now aren't they?

The management chip receives commands from the usb communication that informs it what chip we are currently uploading. As well as debugging. It is able to receive log messages from the ui and net chips and push them out to the usb interface.

> #### <h4 id="managment_flashing">Flashing</h4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### <h4 id="management_flashing">Flashing</h4>
```

- `docker` - Uses docker to compile, flash, and monitor the ui chip. By default it will compile the code. To change the functionality, pass a target of the Makefile into the parameter `mft` when being invoked.
    - Ex. make docker mft=upload
    - Ex. make docker mft=monitor

- `monitor` - Opens a serial communication line with the management chip with a python script that allows for sending of commands.

- `openocd` - Opens a openocd debugging instance. See [Installation](#stm_installation) for instructions on installing openocd.

- `dirs` - Makes all directories required for by the Makefile to compile and upload.

- `docker-clean` - Removes dockere image that was generated when running docker target.

- `clean` - Deletes the firmware/build/ui directory.

- `info` - Displays the build path, include files, object files, dependencies and vpaths used by the compiler.

<b>Source code</b>

All source code for the User Interface can be found in firmware/ui, firmware/shared, and firmware/shared_inc. Adding C/C++ files in firmware/ui/src and firmware/ui/inc does not require any changes in the makefile.

> Making a shared header between chips should be added into firmware/shared_inc.

Reviewer: This section feels like it should be either before or after net and ui sections, not in-between.

### <h3 id="network"><b>Network</b></h3>

> The network chip is a MOQ client. The network chip communicates with the UI chip via UART serial communication.

Reviewer: Could insert a link to libquicr repo here possibly?
```suggestion
The network chip is a MOQ client using [quicr](https://github.com/Quicr/libquicr). The network chip communicates with the UI chip via UART serial communication.
```

- `compile` - Compiles the net code using the command `idf.py compile`

- `upload` - Uploads the net code using openocd

- `upload_py` - Uploads the build target to the Network chip using the our custom flasher tool with serial usb-c uploading. See [Python Flasher](#py_flasher)

> - `upload_esptool` - Uploads the netowrk chip code by first sending a command to the mgmt chip to put the board into **net upload** mode. Then uses `esptool.py upload`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `upload_esptool` - Uploads the network chip code by first sending a command to the mgmt chip to put the board into **net upload** mode. Then uses `esptool.py upload`
```

- `docker` - Uses docker to compile, flash, and monitor the ui chip. By default it will compile the code. To change the functionality, pass a target of the Makefile into the parameter `mft` when being invoked.

>     - Ex. make docker mft=upload
>     - Ex. make docker mft=monitor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Ex. `make docker mft=upload`
    - Ex. `make docker mft=monitor`
```

- `monitor` - Opens a serial communication line with the management chip in debug mode using screen.

- `py_monitor` - Opens a serial communication line with the management chip with a python script that allows for sending of commands.

- `clean` - Deletes the firmware/net/build directory.

- `fullclean` - Invokes idf.py fullclean.

- `docker-clean` - Removes dockere image that was generated when running docker target.

> <b>Source code</b>

Reviewer: Didn't this section exist further up where I commented about it?

Author: Yeah, its a source code section for the network chip.

All source code for the network chip can be found in `firmware/net`, `firmware/shared`, and `firmware/shared_inc`.

## <h2 id="tools">Tools</h2>

### <h3 id="py_flasher"><b>Python Flasher</b></h3>
A firmware flashing tool designed to work with Hactar by collating STM32 and
ESP32 flashing specifications.

> #### <h4>Requirements</h4>

Reviewer: I've seen it a lot so figure I'll mention it, if you use # you don't need to also use <h> tags, unless you're using the `id` property of <h> tags.

- pyserial - ```pip install pyserial```

<h4>How to use</h4>
Generally the flasher is used automatically in the Makefile. However, you can flash whatever binary you want onto a chip that the flasher is designed for by running it as python script in the firmware/flasher folder.

ex.

```sh

> python3 flasher.py --port=/dev/ttyUSB0 --baud=115200 --chip="chip" -bin="./build/app.bin"

Reviewer: Is it a specific string? Or is "chip" the literal string to use?
```suggestion
python3 flasher.py --port=/dev/ttyUSB0 --baud=115200 --chip="<chip>" -bin="./build/app.bin"
```

- Download make.exe from [Source Forge](https://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuwin32/files/make/3.81/make-3.81.exe/download?use_mirror=phoenixnap&download=)

> - Save it to C:/bin or where ever you want it. Then add the location to the your path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Save it to OS bin directory or wherever you want it. Then add the location to the your path.
```

- The first and third LED from the left will turn blue indicating debug mode and your console will receive serial debug messages from the UI and Net chips.
- Enter `exit` to leave the monitor

> <!-- <h2 id="hactar_upload">Fully Assembled Hactar Setup</h2>

Reviewer: Should this section remain?

Reviewer: Or should we delete it from the file?
